<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="d4e3">
   <title>Getting started with Debrief NG</title>
   <shortdesc>
         This series of cheatsheets will guide you through creating your Debrief working environment, customising it according to your preferred file locations, and loading some analysis data.  If you wish, you can widen this 'Welcome' panel to make the tutorials easier to read.  You may also find it easier to work through these cheat-sheets if you make the bottom section of this pane taller by dragging the central 'grab' bar vertically upwards
      </shortdesc>
   <task id="d4e8">
      <title>Defining your workspace</title>
      <shortdesc>
            In comparison with prior versions of Debrief, Debrief NG introduces the concept of a Workspace - a central repository for your assorted analysis-related documents.  Within this workspace your work is grouped into individual projects: thus you can quickly switch between concurrent analysis tasks.  Debrief's provision of projects allows you to quickly drag and drop Debrief data-files and plots.
         </shortdesc>
      <task id="d4e16">
         <title>Generating a project for your data</title>
         <shortdesc>Debrief NG stores it's data in a local folder called a Project. It's into this
         folder that you place analysis files and links to existing data folders elsewhere on your
         machine/network. This tutorial will lead you through creating a new, blank project.
      </shortdesc>
         <taskbody>
            <steps>
               <step id="d7e9">
                  <cmd>Check Navigator is open</cmd>
                  <info>In the top left hand corner of Debrief you should find the Navigator window. If
         it isn't there, select "Navigator" from Debrief's Window/Show View menu.</info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
               <step id="d7e15">
                  <cmd>Learn about the Show View menu</cmd>
                  <info> Was the navigator view already open? If it was then you've missed out on
         the Show View menu. Just open the Window menu from the top of Debrief, and select <b>Show
            view</b>. A list of Debrief-specific views will open. So, in the future, if you're
         directed to a view but you can't find it, just remember you can open any view from
         this menu, </info>
                  <stepxmp>optional</stepxmp>
               </step>
               <step id="d7e24">
                  <cmd>Learn about the Quick Access panel</cmd>
                  <info> Alternatively, wherever you are in Debrief, you can popup the quick access
         panel. Just hold down the <b>[ctrl]</b> key, press <b>3</b> and a yellow post-it like menu
         will appear. As you start typing 'Navigator' the list of available commands will
         shrink down until your required view is open. Obviously, this is of greater relevance to
         those who favour keyboard over mouse. </info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
               <step id="d7e36">
                  <cmd>Learn about Views in Debrief</cmd>
                  <info> As you'll have read, the Navigator panel is an example of a View in
         Debrief. Views are supplemental panels that provide additional information (or control) to
         the conventional 2D Debrief plot. They can be closed by clicking on the <b>X</b> icon on
         their name tab. They can also be dragged around, both within Debrief (to put them, for
         example on the opposite side of the application), or out of Debrief into a separate window.
         When you close Debrief, it remembers the views that were previously open. </info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
               <step id="d7e46">
                  <cmd>Check you need a project</cmd>
                  <info>If the navigator window is empty, then you need to create a project. If the
         window already contains a folder-icon (possibly containing sample data) then hey, you're
         ready to go, well done! Return to the Welcome page and select another tutorial (such as
         'Getting your data into Debrief'. Otherwise, tick the 'Complete' box below and continue
         with this tutorial.</info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
               <step id="d7e52">
                  <cmd>Create a 'General' project</cmd>
                  <info>Right-click in the Navigator view, and select <b>Project...</b> from the
            <b>New</b> sub-menu. The New Project wizard will open. From the <b>General</b> folder,
         select <b>Project</b>, and then press <b>Next</b>. Now just enter a name for your project
         (this could be the name of the current exercise). If you're in a workplace where users
         are unable to create folders in their home directory, clear the <b>Use default location</b>
         checkbox, and <b>Browse</b> to a folder in your personal working directories. (Note: you can ignore 'Working Sets' for now).
         Then just press the 'Finish' button, and you will see the new project in your workspace.
      </info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
            </steps>
            <result>
               You've now created a project into which you can store your Debrief data
            </result>
         </taskbody>
      </task>
      <task id="d4e34">
         <title>Generating links to your existing data</title>
         <shortdesc>Debrief NG stores it's data in a local folder called a Project. While
			these are frequently created afresh to store new analysis data, it's also possible
			to denote your existing data directories as sub-folders (via links). This tutorial leads
			you through generating links to your existing data folders. If you've installed
			Debrief in the past, chances are you still have a Debrief installation folder (in
			C:\Program Files\Debrief 2003). If you do still have this folder, you can usefully link
			it in within this tutorial to provide some sample data. If you don't have an
			existing Debrief installation, then add the folder called <b>sample_data</b> located in
			the top-level folder of your Debrief NG installation (typically in c:\DebriefNG under MS
			Windows if you have Debrief installed locally, or in the Debrief\DebriefNG folder
			if you are on a site using a Programs folder from a shared
			network drive).</shortdesc>
         <taskbody>
            <steps>
               <step id="d8e12">
                  <cmd>Check Navigator is open</cmd>
                  <info>In the top left hand corner of Debrief you should find the Navigator window. If
			it isn't there, select <b>Navigator</b> from Debrief's Window/Show View
			menu.</info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
               <step id="d8e21">
                  <cmd>Check you have a workspace</cmd>
                  <info>Before you can link in existing data, you need to define a project for your
			work. This is a parent folder within which your links are stored. If your Navigator
			window is empty, you must follow the <b>Generating a project</b> cheat-sheet accessed
			from the Help/Cheat Sheets menu.</info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
               <step id="d8e30">
                  <cmd>Add a new Folder</cmd>
                  <info>Right-click on your current project in the Navigator view, then select
				<b>Folder</b> from the <b>New</b> sub-menu. The New Folder wizard will open. Instead
			of creating a fresh child folder to store our data, we're going to link to an
			existing folder. So, whilst still in the New Folder Wizard, click the
			'Advanced' button to display the Advanced options. Next, click on the
			'Link to alternate location (Linked folder)', and click on
			'Browse...' to navigate to an existing data folder on your machine or the
			network, clicking on <b>Finish</b> to, erm, Finish. <ph/>
                     <b>If you don't have your own
			data</b>, please use the <b>sample_data</b> folder that's installed in your Debrief
			installation folder (for a deployed Debrief) or<ph/>
			org.mwc.cmap.combined.feature/root_installs (if you are running a development version of
			Debrief).</info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
               <step id="d8e55">
                  <cmd>Done</cmd>
                  <info>Well done, there you are. Just repeat this process to add any other data
			directories you want to load data from. You've probably just created a link to the
			sample data, but you may also wish to create a link to a shared working
			folder.</info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
            </steps>
            <result>
               You can now repeat this process to create links to your other Debrief data directories.
            </result>
         </taskbody>
      </task>
      <task id="d4e55">
         <title>Configuring legacy data</title>
         <shortdesc>
         In addition to plotting your recorded vehicle data, Debrief is able to show a number of datasets in backdrop form.
<ph/>
These range from Vectored datasets such as VPF through to gridded datasets such as ETOPO-2
      </shortdesc>
         <taskbody>
            <steps>
               <step id="d9e11">
                  <cmd>How to configure VPF library datasets</cmd>
                  <info>
         The steps to configure VPF and Etopo are covered in Debrief's user manual.  If you wish to learn this at this stage, use the 'Question Mark' help link alongside, else search for <b>VPF</b> in Debrief's online help at some future stage. Here's a clue though, you go into the <b>Maritime Analysis</b> section of the Preferences.
      </info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
               <step id="d9e23">
                  <cmd>How to configure ETOPO library data</cmd>
                  <info>
         Use the help link to the side of this text to open the guidance on how to configure the location of the ETOPO data.
      </info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
            </steps>
            <result>
               <b>Conclusion</b>
            </result>
         </taskbody>
      </task>
   </task>
   <task id="d4e76">
      <title>Viewing some data</title>
      <shortdesc>
            This series of steps will guide you through creating then populating a new Debrief plot.
         </shortdesc>
      <task id="d4e81">
         <title>Creating a new plot in Debrief</title>
         <shortdesc>This tutorial will lead you through creating a new, blank plot in Debrief.
		</shortdesc>
         <taskbody>
            <steps>
               <step id="d10e9">
                  <cmd>Check you have a Project</cmd>
                  <info>Before you can create a Plot, you must have a Project into which the Plot is created. If you haven't created a project, go to the "Generating a project" cheatsheet, then return here.
		</info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
               <step id="d10e15">
                  <cmd>Choose location for plot file</cmd>
                  <info>
       Debrief will store the new plot in one of your existing folders.  If your navigator contains links to both shared training data and personal data folders, it's probably best to create this plot in your personal data folder.
    </info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
               <step id="d10e21">
                  <cmd>Create new plot</cmd>
                  <info>In the Navigator view, right-click on the parent folder for your new plot and select <b>New</b>/<b>Debrief Plot</b> and the Wizard will open.  Once the wizard opens, the first step is to confirm where you would like the plot to be stored (it's <b>Container</b>). If you're not happy with the specified location click on <b>Browse</b> button and select the top-level folder of your data directories.  Also provide a filename.
Using the wizard, follow the series of tabs to indicate what information you'd like shown in the background of the plot, clicking Finish to complete.  Some of the steps will not advance until all of the necessary fields have been filled.
		</info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
               <step id="d10e39">
                  <cmd>Finished</cmd>
                  <info>
       Once the Wizard has closed, the plot you've created can be found in the folder you specified.
    </info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
            </steps>
            <result>
               Note that we didn't have to use the wizard steps, we could have inserted chart features into our Plot by hand using the Chart Features menu.
            </result>
         </taskbody>
      </task>
      <task id="d4e96">
         <title>Adding data to a plot</title>
         <shortdesc>Debrief's New Plot Wizard is quite effective at providing you with a ready-formatted backdrop to your analysis, but it doesn't load your data for you.  Here we're going to load some existing tracks to assist your getting started.
		</shortdesc>
         <taskbody>
            <steps>
               <step id="d11e9">
                  <cmd>Check Navigator is open</cmd>
                  <info>In the top left hand corner of Debrief you should find the Navigator window.  If it isn't there, select "Navigator" from Debrief's Window/Show View menu.  In the navigator, you should have a linked directory to sample data, either from a previous Debrief installation, or from within this fresh one.</info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
               <step id="d11e15">
                  <cmd>View sample data</cmd>
                  <info>In the Navigator, expand the folder that contains your existing Debrief files (either REP or XML).  Valid Debrief files are flagged with a Debrief icon.  See the help link for this step (the Question mark icon) to read about the two file types. </info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
               <step id="d11e21">
                  <cmd>Drag in a simple track</cmd>
                  <info>If you've already got a plot open (maybe one from earlier steps in the tutorial), close it now by clicking on the cross in the small tab-shaped icon above it.  Don't worry about saving the tutorial files.  Drag a REP track from your Navigator onto the blank plot area. The  <b>boat1.rep</b> file is a simple starting point.  The plot and any associated views will promptly update.  When REP files are dragged in, you may be asked whether you wish to import the data in Over The Ground (OTG) or Dead Reckoning (DR) mode.  For this tutorial, select OTG, but see help link (?) for this step for more detail - particularly if you expect to be using DR data.</info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
               <step id="d11e30">
                  <cmd>Drag in a complex plot</cmd>
                  <info>
       If you have multiple tracks to analyse you can drag them onto the track plot you've just created.  But, for now, close the plot you have open (by clicking on the cross icon in it's tab.  You'll be asked if you want to save it, press <b>don't save</b>.  Now drag across <b>sample.xml</b>. You'll see that this plot contains more complex graphical features.
    </info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
               <step id="d11e43">
                  <cmd>Debrief file types</cmd>
                  <info>
       Note, you've just encountered two file types, the Replay file type (<b>.rep</b>) and the Debrief file type (<b>.xml</b>).  The Replay file format is a very simple, column oriented text format that's ideal for passing around track data.  But, it isn't suited to storing formatting data or user preferences.  This is where the Debrief xml file type comes in.  Whilst it's still a textual file format, it has a rich structure that allows it to store a wide range of data types and subjects.  Thus a typical flow for data is that it enters Debrief in REP format, the analyst creates a custom plot based on this data, and then stores the plot as an XML file.
    </info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
               <step id="d11e55">
                  <cmd>Done</cmd>
                  <info>There you are, your track data is now on the plot.  Note, tracks can't only be dragged from the Navigator. If you arrange your windows correctly you can drag tracks in directly from Windows Explorer.  Read the help for this step to learn how to implement 'right-click' support for Debrief files</info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
            </steps>
            <result/>
         </taskbody>
      </task>
      <task id="d4e108">
         <title>Editing your data</title>
         <shortdesc>So, you've found your data, loaded it into Debrief, and now you want to make
			some changes to it. This cheat-sheet will give you some pointers.</shortdesc>
         <taskbody>
            <steps>
               <step id="d12e9">
                  <cmd>Check you have some data</cmd>
                  <info>In the top left hand corner of Debrief you should find the Navigator window. If
			it isn't there, select "Navigator" from Debrief's Window/Show View menu. Also check you
			have our sample data-files - it they're not there, find how to load them from the
			"Loading sample data" cheat-sheet.</info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
               <step id="d12e15">
                  <cmd>Open the sample plot-file</cmd>
                  <info>If it's not already open, double-click on 'sample.xml' in the
			Navigator window, and the sample plot will open.</info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
               <step id="d12e21">
                  <cmd>Fit to window</cmd>
                  <info>You can also experiment with zooming in and out.  Click the zoom out
			button once to zoom out, or put plot into <b>Zoom In</b> mode by clicking on the Zoom In
			button. Now, when you drag an area, the map will zoom in on that viewport.<ph/>
			Lastly, to make sure all of the data is visible, click on the "Fit-to-Window"
			toolbar button. Read more about the toolbar buttons by clicking on the help-link to the
			right of this text.  </info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
               <step id="d12e32">
                  <cmd>View the data in tree form</cmd>
                  <info> In addition to viewing your data on the 2D plot, the <b>Outline View</b>
			displays it in tree form. Switch to the <b>Outline View</b> view to see the data.
			If the Outline View isn't open already, you can open it via the <b>Window/Show View</b> menu.
			You'll see the two tracks there, together with other layers that contain <b>Chart
				Features</b> (such as the <b>Grid</b> and <b>Scale</b>), and the <b>Misc</b> layer
			that contains graphical annotations. </info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
               <step id="d12e61">
                  <cmd>Make sure the properties window is open</cmd>
                  <info>The properties window is normally at the bottom left of Debrief. If it's there
			but not at the top of the 'stack', click on its title to reveal it. If you can't find
			it, select "Properties" from the 'Window/Show View" drop-down list.</info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
               <step id="d12e67">
                  <cmd>Select an item</cmd>
                  <info>Now double-click on one of the corners of the green rectangle near the centre
			of the track plot. You'll now see its editable attributes appear on the properties
			window. Cool. You'll see that the attributes are grouped for ease of use, and some
			must be expanded (those for location &amp; time).</info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
               <step id="d12e73">
                  <cmd>Make a change</cmd>
                  <info>Now have a go at changing the rectangle's label color. Click once on the green
			rectangle next to 'LabelColor'. A button containing three dots will appear. Click on
			this to open the color editor. Click on the red rectangle and then the 'OK' button. The
			dialog will close, the label color property will be updated, and the plot will redraw.
			Well done.</info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
               <step id="d12e79">
                  <cmd>Undo the change</cmd>
                  <info>Oops, it appears we shouldn't have changed the label color, it
			doesn't meet NATO MilStd 12332 Sub-para 14g (2002 version). To undo a change, first
			click on the tab at the top of the <b>sample.xml</b> plot (to tell Debrief which plot
			we're undoing). Now click on the Edit menu, and select Undo (it's the first
			item). The color of the label will now change back. Look on the Edit menu again, and
			you'll see there's now a "Redo" command available - just in case
			you're undecided about your adherence to sub-para 14g. Note, it's not just
			edits that are undo-able, lots of operations can be undone, just have a look on the Edit
			menu whenever you feel the need to step-back. If you think something isn't on there
			but it should be, just ask... <b>But it did
				not undo!</b>. The Undo button applies to whichever is the active Debrief view. So,
			to undo a change to the plot, first need to select the plot (or the tab containing hte
			plot name), then press undo.</info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
               <step id="d12e91">
                  <cmd>Edit a position</cmd>
                  <info>To select a position within a track, just double-click on it - its editable
			attributes will appear in the properties window. You can now change the symbol or label
			(<b>LabelShowing</b> or <b>SymbolShowing</b>,
			visibility, or the color (<b>Color</b>) that position will be plotted in. Note: you may have to scroll up &amp; down the
			<b>Properties Window</b> to see all of the properties.</info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
               <step id="d12e109">
                  <cmd>Edit a whole track</cmd>
                  <info>Aaah, but how do you edit a track? Easy, just use the Outline View to select
			it rather than clicking on the plot. Open the Outline View (or select Outline View
			from the Window/Show View drop-down menu). In the Outline View click once on the name
			of a track, and the whole track's properties will be editable in the Properties View.
			The Outline View is also useful for selecting non-geographic entities (such as a grid,
			scale, or background data-set) to be edited.</info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
               <step id="d12e116">
                  <cmd>Re-arrange the views</cmd>
                  <info>Now, are you finding it a bit of pain switching between the Outline View and
			Properties views? Using your mouse, just click and drag the Properties panel upwards -
			so it's on top of the view vertically above it. You can now see the Outline View
			and Properties windows at once.</info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
               <step id="d12e122">
                  <cmd>Edit directly from the plot itself</cmd>
                  <info>For some attributes, you don't even need to use the Properties View. Just
			right-click on an item on your plot. The popup menu shows a series of options and
			commands. A drop-down menu is shown next to the current item's name. From this drop-down
			menu you'll be able to edit all of the item's true/false or 'select one from many'
			attributes. Note, if you click on a vehicle position, a drop-down is shown for the
			parent track as well as the position itself. Also note, that the right-click menu is
			shown if you click on an item from the Outline View.</info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
               <step id="d12e128">
                  <cmd>Don't forget to save</cmd>
                  <info>Now that you've invested all that effort in your plot, don't forget to save it.
			Just click on the floppy-disk icon on the main toolbar. If the data you're looking is
			actually an REP file, you will be invited to save the file in Debrief's XML plot-file
			format - since REPs can't store formatting data.</info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
            </steps>
            <result/>
         </taskbody>
      </task>
      <task id="d4e117">
         <title>View the UI overview in the Help</title>
         <shortdesc>
         That's the end of the guided tour, you can now learn more from the online user guide.
      </shortdesc>
         <taskbody>
            <steps>
               <step id="d13e9">
                  <cmd>View the help guide</cmd>
                  <info>
         In addition to these cheat sheets, Debrief has an extensive user guide.  Now's a good time to go and read about the other features you can see in the user interface.

So, click on the help link alongside or below to open the help manual, have a read about the Debrief UI, then come back to this cheat sheet.
      </info>
                  <stepxmp/>
               </step>
            </steps>
            <result>
               You've now mastered the initial steps of using Debrief.

               <ph/>Ok, you've finished your first cheat sheet, why not try the "Using Debrief in analysis" on next.

            </result>
         </taskbody>
      </task>
   </task>
</task>
